Have you ever been distressed?
Well, if you haven't, you're not human, because all humans suffer from some form of distress
in a short period of life that we have this side of the New World.
But what is distress?
Some say it's extreme anxiety, others say, well, it's sorrow, then there's a few who label
it as pain.
Well, what is it that causes the distress?
Well, a number of things.
Here's one that somewhat heads the list, death of a spouse.
Second behind that is injury or some type of illness, then there's loss of a job.
How am I going to care for my family, my wife and my children?
And then here's a very important one, not being able to share in the kingdom preaching
work to the full.
Well, these are reasons that we are distressed.
Now, of course, these are not the only reasons, there's many others.
But how would you fare?
How would you feel if you're undergoing some type of distress?
Well, could it be sad that how you're going to feel?
Are you depressed?
Some say, well, yes, that's what hits me.
Others say, well, low in spirits, I just, I don't know, I'm just down and out.
My get up and go, got up and left.
Others say, well, I just feel like going off and hiding and crying.
Well, that pretty well sums it up, but is it possible to rejoice when distress?
Well, we know it is because we have examples in the Bible.
The Bible is filled with examples.
We're just going to isolate one or two, Paul was one who rejoiced behind being distressed.
He was able to rejoice despite the feelings that he had.
Now if you have your Bible handy, open it, please, to 2 Corinthians.
And read along with me, 2 Corinthians chapter 7 and verse 5.
So notice that it says, in fact, when we arrived in Macedonia, our bodies got no relief.
But we continue to be afflicted in every way.
Now note the following.
There were fights on the outside, fears within.
Fights on the outside, fears within.
Yes, Paul was up against it, and he knew it, but yet he was able to rejoice.
But what was he up against?
Earlier, Paul had hoped to meet up with Titus and Troas, but he hadn't heard from Titus,
and he didn't get a message from him.
He wondered about him.
He wondered how he was feeling, was something hard hitting against him at this time
in that Corinthian congregation.
So Paul wanted to know.
So he worried about his friend, and we would, too, if we were waiting to hear from a friend
we hadn't received an answer.
He likely worried it.
So much that it caused him to feel somewhat depressed.
He thought, well, how long will I have to wait on my friend Titus?
Well, he didn't have to wait too long.
Titus finally joined him in Macedonia.
And what happened?
Well, Paul was comforted, and upon hearing the Titus favorable report about the brothers
and sisters in Corinth, Paul rejoiced even more, says 2 Corinthians chapter 7, if you're
just glassed down at verses 6 and 7.
So he was helped by his brother.
It's the brotherhood that we have to reach out to, too, and it will help us.
This beautiful brotherhood that Jehovah has brought us into.
And we'll find that our brothers are there for us, regardless of what we may be fighting
against.
So we can rejoice.
We may experience distress in the form of discouragement, and usually all of us have
had that come into our life from time to time.
There are so many things that can bring about discouragement.
Here's something else.
The anguish over a lost loved one, maybe a marriage made has died.
You've been together for many years.
And like Jehovah said in the Garden of Eden, the two shall become one.
And you know that's really what happened to you and your wife that you lost or your husband,
not to you lost.
So you are somewhat low in spirits.
You are blue, you're a little downhearted, gloomy, heavyhearted, and yes sad.
But now let's recall that we have three provisions that can strengthen our ability to rejoice
despite the trials that we're undergoing.
What are they?
Well, here's the first one.
Yes, our relationship with Jehovah.
David had a fine relationship with Jehovah.
And if you'll turn to 1 Samuel, chapter 30, and just follow along, as you hear me say
a few things behind these two, three verses or four, we're going to start with verse
1, that's 1 Samuel, chapter 30.
When his own men wanted to kill David because the amelikites burned the city down and had
taken their wives and children captive, even took two of David's wives, well David was
very distressed, as you'll see in that account.
But now notice near the end of it there in verse 6.
But David strengthened himself by Jehovah, his God.
Here's where our strength comes to is from turning to Jehovah our God.
And he's there for us.
And he's going to comfort us.
He is the God of comfort, as was acknowledged in his written word of the Bible.
So that's the first.
Our relationship with Jehovah.
Now here comes the second.
It's our brotherhood.
My how we are strengthened by our brothers.
Remember the 133rd Psalm where it says at the very beginning, look how good and how pleasant
it is for our brothers to dwell together in unity.
Now we all know that that is a true statement.
But we also know something else.
It's a major scheme of Satan the devil to isolate us from our brothers if he can put us
in jail.
But if that happens and we are jailed, we can still associate.
Now how can we do that if we're jailed and there's way off somewhere and we're behind
bars?
Here it is by memories.
For instance, get out your scrapbook and photo album that are locked in your brain.
Not the literal, that locked in your brain and feed on the spiritual scraps.
What are they?
The memories.
Memories are foods that strengthen and cause rejoicing.
Now if any of you out there are as old as I am, then you know that old folks do this
all the time.
We're just too tired to do anything else.
So we just live on memories and it brings joy to our heart.
Now that's the second thing our brotherhood.
Now the third is our hope.
Our hope is to serve Jehovah under righteous conditions throughout eternity.
It is forever.
It never ends.
It goes on and on and on.
For instance, look at the sky above.
You cannot see a beginning or ending.
That's eternity.
Always there.
You're going to be able to rejoice for an eternity living forever.
Now as you watch the following video, take note of which provisions helped our brother
and sister to rejoice and that despite distress.
We knew when we first got married that we would enjoy having a family.
So when we first found out that we were pregnant, we were overjoyed.
When Becky first told me she was pregnant, it's like a light switch went off in my heart.
Immediately I felt like a dad.
But instantly you began to make plans.
It was like all this love just flooded in.
One day Becky was feeling a little off and a friend encouraged us to just go see the
doctor.
So we did.
And while we were there, they did an ultrasound.
The doctor came back and they said there wasn't a heartbeat anymore.
That was a very difficult moment.
Something I can never forget, because all of a sudden, all of you, those hopes, those
dreams, those preparations you are making, they're gone.
This place in your heart that opened up to make room for this child is now this huge
gaping open hole and there's nothing to fill it.
It just is an incredible emptiness.
We didn't know what to do, but it was a meeting night, so we wanted to go to the meeting.
It felt like the place where Jehovah's Holy Spirit is, and we wanted to be there because
we knew we were not going to be able to survive this on our own strength.
We needed Jehovah.
After people learned that we had lost the baby, so many people shared a little bit of their
experiences with me, which made us feel not alone, for sure.
But Jehovah has also given us some incredible friends, friends that have stuck closer to
us than a brother, friends that always seem to know when we're having a hard day, who
have prayed with us, who have taken walks with us, listened, and I know those are expressions
Jehovah has given us.
And gaining joy isn't work in progress.
There was a particular scripture in personal study that I found very helpful, Psalm 39,
where it talks about how there's nowhere that Jehovah can't find us.
There's no darkness that is too dark from Jehovah, and it felt like such a dark place, dwelling
on that scripture, was something that helped me a lot, and gradually bit by bit.
I felt like Jehovah did help me to see beautiful things again.
When we experience distress, Jehovah helps us, we're not left in despair.
For instance, here in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, it tells us if we also include the footnote,
now that's the eighth verse of 2 Corinthians chapter 4.
Now this is how it reads, we're hard pressed in every way, but not cramped beyond movement.
We're perplexed, but not absolutely with no way out.
Now the footnote says, not left in despair.
Jehovah's not going to leave us in despair.
Now which provisions from Jehovah are helping you to rejoice, despite any mental or emotional
distress that you may be experiencing even now?
Is it your relationship with Jehovah, the brotherhood, our hope, or is it something else?
In addition to the provisions from Jehovah, consider these practical suggestions.
Being a healthy diet, coupled with that, gets sufficient rest and gets a measure of exercise.
Now you can make two lists.
One of the problems that you can solve and the other problems you cannot solve at present.
Act on the first list and leave the rest in Jehovah's hands.
Some things out with an elder, or perhaps a mature friend, someone you're close to,
and a parent.
These are there to help us, and they're ready and willing to share the knowledge and understanding
that they have, and they'll do it generously with you.
These are some forms of mental distress may require professional assistance.
This is what Jesus said at Luke chapter 5, verse 31, those who are healthy do not need
a physician, but those who are ill do.
Now of course that decision is up to you, but if they're in the Scripture, it may be that
you need the help of a physician, someone who's qualified to look into certain matters.
Please rejoice in knowing that you have Jehovah's approval.
Don't doubt it, not even for a moment.
Now granted, it's not easy to deal with mental or emotional distress, but keep in mind
that Jehovah understands, and he will help you to keep on enduring.
And your loyal endurance brings you over to approval, which is one of the greatest reasons
that we have for rejoicing.
Know that God has not left you.
You have His approval like a large shield surrounding you and His blessing.
So rejoice in that knowledge and keep on rejoicing despite distress.
Brother Garrett Loesch, a member of the governing body will now present the next talk of this
symposium.
We can rejoice despite persecution.